README.md, before:

# The Pre Academy Program

The Pre Academy is a short crash course under designed to fill knowledge gaps and aimed to prepare students and labs to succeed and improve their experience during [Fab Academy](http://fabacademy.org). It's **everything you should know before starting Fab Academy**. Topics covered include repository management, project documentation, lab preparation, fundamental electronics and programming, design thinking, machine operation, and health and safety.

This repository hosts the current iteration of Pre Academy, which incorporates improved documentation and lessons learned during the follow-up of the pre academy students participating in Fab Academy. Some changes include:
* Adding more design thinking and design principles
* Increasing time spent on documentation tools and repository management
* Increasing lessons in CAD (2D, 3D, parametric, advanced and simulation)
* It is based in commonly used [FOSS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Free_and_open-source_software)
* Removing topics that are common with fab academy (composites, molding and casting, electronics production, etc.).

[Go to Pre Academy official course documentation](summary.md)    

# The Pre Academy cycles

## First iteration. Pre Academy 2016
The first official cycle of Pre Academy was tutored by Luciano Betoldi and Francisco Sanchez during October and November 2015. The course was taught in the state of Kerala, South India. There were 8 participants in Kochi and 14 in Thiruvananthapuram. Successful students obtained a certificate issued by Fab Academy X during [Fab12](http://fab12.fabevent.org) in China. The program sillabus and student work was documented here:

[Go to Pre Academy 2016 students archive](http://thebeachlab.github.io/)

## Second iteration. Pre Academy 2017
The second iteration of Pre Academy was tutored by Francisco Sanchez in December 2016 to twenty professors of KTU Engineering colleges of the state of Kerala, South India. Students will obtain a certificate issued by Fab Academy X during [Fab13](http://fab13.fabevent.org) in Santiago de Chile.

[Go to Pre Academy 2017 students archive](http://archive.fabacademy.org/fabacademyx/preacademy2017/)

## Third iteration: Pre Academy 2018
The third iteration of Pre Academy is planned to be tutored by Francisco Sanchez and Luis Carvao in late 2017 in Jordan (TBD). Successful students will obtain a certificate issued by Fab Academy X during [Fab14](http://fab14.fabevent.org) in France.

# Questions and comments
If you have questions or inquiries about the course content please do not hesitate to raise an issue or contact me (Francisco): hola [at] beachlab [dot] org. Happy to help!

Commit message:

sibu- test push, update names

README.md, after:

# The Pre Academy Program

The Pre Academy is a short crash course under designed to fill knowledge gaps and aimed to prepare students and labs to succeed and improve their experience during [Fab Academy](http://fabacademy.org). It's **everything you should know before starting Fab Academy**. Topics covered include repository management, project documentation, lab preparation, fundamental electronics and programming, design thinking, machine operation, and health and safety.

This repository hosts the current iteration of Pre Academy, which incorporates improved documentation and lessons learned during the follow-up of the pre academy students participating in Fab Academy. Some changes include:
* Adding more design thinking and design principles
* Increasing time spent on documentation tools and repository management
* Increasing lessons in CAD (2D, 3D, parametric, advanced and simulation)
* It is based in commonly used [FOSS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Free_and_open-source_software)
* Removing topics that are common with fab academy (composites, molding and casting, electronics production, etc.).

[Go to Pre Academy official course documentation](summary.md)    

# The Pre Academy cycles

## First iteration. Pre Academy 2016
The first official cycle of Pre Academy was tutored by Luciano Betoldi and Francisco Sanchez during October and November 2015. The course was taught in the state of Kerala, South India. There were 8 participants in Kochi and 14 in Thiruvananthapuram. Successful students obtained a certificate issued by Fab Academy X during [Fab12](http://fab12.fabevent.org) in China. The program sillabus and student work was documented here:

[Go to Pre Academy 2016 students archive](http://thebeachlab.github.io/)

## Second iteration. Pre Academy 2017
The second iteration of Pre Academy was tutored by Francisco Sanchez with assistance from Sibu Saman and Yadu Sharon (both from Kerala itself) in December 2016 to twenty professors of KTU Engineering colleges of the state of Kerala, South India. Students will obtain a certificate issued by Fab Academy X during [Fab13](http://fab13.fabevent.org) in Santiago de Chile.

[Go to Pre Academy 2017 students archive](http://archive.fabacademy.org/fabacademyx/preacademy2017/)

## Third iteration: Pre Academy 2018
The third iteration of Pre Academy is planned to be tutored by Francisco Sanchez, Fiore Basile and Sibu Saman in late 2017-Early 2018 in Jordan. Successful students will obtain a certificate issued by Fab Academy X during [Fab14](http://fab14.fabevent.org) in France.

# Questions and comments
If you have questions or inquiries about the course content please do not hesitate to raise an issue or contact me (Francisco): hola [at] beachlab [dot] org. Happy to help!
