# Day 3. Working with git repositories

* The community effect
* Downloading from Github
* Installing git
* Cloning a repository
* Pulling a repository
* Forking a repository
* Pushing to a repository

In Fab Academy **we are working with git repositories**. Every lab has a git repository where students push and pull their work. The advantages of working with repositories are countless, you can create branches, roll back changes, delete other people's files and many other things that you will hate very soon.

## Installing git
To install **git** in Ubuntu type in a terminal window:

`sudo apt-get install git`

> Exercise: Install git in your laptop

## Configuring git
Set some basic config and tell git who you are. Maybe I don't have to say that, but replace **yourname** with your actual name and **youremail** with your email address.

```
cd ~/folder_name # replace this with your repository folder
git config --global user.name "yourname" #set name for commits
git config --global user.email "youremail" #set email for commits
git config --global push.default simple #default push only the current branch
git config --global core.editor atom #set the editor
```

## Clone the repository
Please find below the SSH address to clone the repository. In your computer, inside a terminal window, navigate to where you want to clone the repository (**recommended your home directory**):

```
cd ~
git clone REPLACE_THIS_WITH_GIT_SSH_ADDRESS
```

## Basic git workflow
This is the basic git workflow. Once you have made all changes to your website (hopefully daily), upload those changes to the repository. **Very important:** Do not miss any step, and do them in order.
```
cd ~/folder_name          # go to the repository folder
git pull                  # pull other students changes
git add --all             # add your changes
git commit -m "message"   # write a meaningful message
git push
```
This is the manual workflow of updating your page. You can also write a script and  [automate this process](.w1d2.md).

## Where is the webpage?


## Troubleshooting

### SSH connection not working
Sometimes git asks for the repository password even if you have specified to use SSH keys. So what you should do is check if the keys are in the **ssh-agent**:
```
$ ssh-add -l
Could not open a connection to your authentication agent.
```
In this case the **ssh-agent** is not running, so start it using:
```
$ eval `ssh-agent -s`
Agent pid 3032
```
Check again:
```
$ ssh-add -l
The agent has no identities.
```
Now the problem is that the agent has no identities. List the keys in your `.ssh` folder:
```
$ ls ~/.ssh
academy  academy.pub  config  known_hosts
```
I add your key, which is the key you added in gitlab
```
$ ssh-add ~/.ssh/your_key
Identity added: ~/.ssh/your_key (~/.ssh/your_key)
```
Check again:
```
$ ssh-add -l
2048 SHA256:D0Yg6HyzIzD9mIIpytearRhVc2YMYEtIpqP664EjEzU ~/.ssh/your_key (RSA)
```
An then, git pull and push using SSH works again.
---
[Back to Summary](../summary.md)
